>> Scott Moss: That's basically it.
There's some optimizations we can do
here and I want to talk about those.
So remember when I said all these crazy
return like Mongo or mongoose objects.
We don't really need Mongoose objects
here, because we're not, the only time you
ever need a Mongoose object is when you're
doing an operation on the object itself
like dot remove, dot populate,
something you're doing on the object.
We're not doing anything
to these objects and
it takes Mongoose time
to build that object.
So we can save Mongoose the time and
not build that object and
just return us the pure JSON.
So the way you would do that is
you would do .lean on the query.
So lean means just give me the JSON,
give me the object, that's it.
I don't want all these fancy properties,
just give me the JSON.
That's very helpful,
because we're sending it back as JSON.
So we just wanna do that.
So .lean is good for that.
If you didn't want to do .lean or
you couldn't.
Like for example, down here on create you
can't do .lean, because it's not a query.
The way you'd have to do that is
you would use the .2json method
on the document itself,
which will convert it to a regular object.
You can also do .2 object and
it will also do it, but
those are optimizations you can do
just to get the regular JavaScript
object representation of your
data versus a Mongoose model.
And it does speed up database queries,
especially if you're
looking at a lot of stuff.
>> Scott Moss: So that's querying it,
and then, from there,
all you have to do is just connect to
the database and then start your server.
And then you've kinda got to figure
out what order do you wanna do that.
Do you start your server first,
and then connect to your database?
Do you connect your database
then start your server?
There is no wrong or right answer there.
It really kinda depends on
what it is that you wanna do.
So in this example you might see me, right
now, I'm already connecting, so maybe now
I'll start my server after I connect, so
maybe the database is already connected.
So now, I'll start the server on my port
5,000 after the database is connected.
Boom, now, I start the server.
In Express that's how you start
a server it's that simple.
The sweet thing about Mongoose is that
while the database is building up these
models and collections for you.
If you start running operations on them,
they'll buffer them kinda
like an analytics tool does.
If you ever use any analytics tool,
on a Friday, Google Analytics, or
literally any analytics library ever.
Before it loads up, if you start
issuing analytics commands and
tracking commands to it,
it'll capture all the events in an array.
And then when it finally loads up, it will
replay them in the order it happened, so
it will buffer them.
Mongo does the same thing so if you
start ushering commands in a database
on the node model or whatever model you
have, before it's done initializing.
It'll just buffer those commands and
replay them when it does connect,
the problem with that is you might
have unexpected side effects.
For instance, if you start
ushering commands like find and
create before the indexes were built,
then you might have some code,
some data that snuck in there,
that snuck past the indexes.
So maybe you want to wait for
those indexes to be built, but
indexes actually take a long
time to be built sometimes.
So there's a lot of trade-offs that
you have to think about when to index,
when to setup, what to wait for, it's
all very specific to your application.
Most application you don't really
have to think about that, but
when it gets like really
big production application,
you really got to think about when do
I index, do I wait for the indexes,
how do I go about doing this,
and it's all very case by case.